[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: If
you're watching this,
you're probably aware of the
double-edged sword of Homeland
Security.
Allegedly established to protect
our freedom from terrorism,
this little scrutinized
act rushed through Congress
without a read, has been
used for heinous actions.
Actions against
American citizens.
No American citizen is more
aware of the illegal nature
of this arm of the government
than former CIA asset Susan
Lindauer.
She worked for nine years
to assist in negotiations
and gathering information on
behalf of the US government
through the Iraqi
and Libyan Embassies
and abroad as a peace activist.
Had her assessments,
along with those
of other very brave individuals
been evaluated and implemented,
we would never have
gone into Iraq.
Instead, she was thrown into
federal prison without a trial.
Susan is with us today.
Susan, you are the hero
of certainly everyone
in this building.
They're practically
applauding as you walk in.
>>SUSAN LINDAUER: Thank you.
>>REGINA: You have
been to hell and back
and it is a story that, I
think, many people watching,
if they're not already
familiar with your case,
would not believe could
happen in America.
>>LINDAUER: That's true.
That's absolutely true.
I was the second non-Arab
American ever indicted
on the Patriot Act.
I was subjected to secret
charges, secret evidence,
secret grand jury testimony.
I was never allowed to
know who had accused me
of what crime or what--
and the government
had no obligation to provide any
evidence that it had actually
happened.
>>REGINA: I mean,
this is the stuff
that we used to
read in spy novels,
you know, Clancy and
Ludlum types of spy novels
where someone is
just thrown away
and everyone abandons
them, and they're
left to more or less rot.
Well, the good thing is you're
a scrapper and a fighter
and you're incredibly
intelligent
and you're connected.
You were able to help
yourself where even
some others in this
situation have not
been able to help themselves
and are still in prison.
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
I am also one of the very few
people who's out of prison
on the Patriot Act,
because I stood up to them
and I fought as
hard as I've ever
fought anything in my life.
But I've met
terrorists who are not
as frightening as
this situation.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
And I wanted to just take a
moment, if you don't mind,
to talk about what could have
happened because you were
negotiating in earnest prior
to 9/11 and after 9/11, right?
>>LINDAUER: My problem was that
I was politically inconvenient,
grossly inconvenient.
There was a peace option
on the table, which
I had negotiated on
behalf of the CIA
and the Defense Intelligence
Agency, which got the United
States everything you
could possibly have wanted.
>>REGINA: I have it written
down here point by point.
Should I go ahead
and share that?
>>LINDAUER: Sure.
>>REGINA: OK.
Weapons inspectors would
have walked into Iraq
with no resistance whatsoever.
They were offering it.
US--
>>LINDAUER: Sorry.
They were offering it from
the very end of the Clinton
administration.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LINDAUER: And we
were in a position
where the weapons inspections
could have started
the first few weeks of
the Bush administration,
and it was offered to Bush
as a-- the comparison was
to the rescue of
the hostages in Iran
to allow the new administration
to show a major foreign policy
victory that would
have put them off
on a strong footing from the
very opening days of the Bush
administration.
>>REGINA: So that was
already on the table.
>>LINDAUER: It was guaranteed.
>>REGINA: No one was
trying to keep them out.
>>LINDAUER: Guaranteed.
>>REGINA: US
corporations could have
had most of the
post-sanction reconstruction
contracts, telecommunications,
health care, pharmaceuticals,
and other contracts.
Building contracts, construction
contracts of different kinds.
That was being made
available to Americans.
>>LINDAUER: They were going
to guarantee that the United
States would profit from
the reconstruction of Iraq
just like the reconstruction
of Japan and Germany
after World War II.
We were going to have the lion's
share of all reconstruction
contracts, even though United
States had enforced sanctions
that killed 2 million Iraqis,
and 1 million children
under the age of five.
And I'd like to add the
United Nations refused
to count six-year-olds.
They only counted the babies.
And 1 million children
had died in 13 years.
>>REGINA: This is really part
of the reason you were there.
As a peace activist,
you had great compassion
for what the sanctions had
done to that population.
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And they knew to
be very afraid of the United
States by this point.
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Really, they could
see the only option was
corporation.
>>LINDAUER: Well, the Iraqis
were giving the United States
everything we could
possibly ask for.
They also promised
the United States
that the FBI could send a
terrorism task force into Iraq
nine months before
9/11 happened.
>>REGINA: And the
reason for that
was because Saddam Hussein,
himself, was very afraid
of Islamic fundamentalists.
Contrary to what
people might believe,
he was terrified of them.
>>LINDAUER: Saddam's
government had
been one of the best sources
for anti-terrorism intelligence
throughout the 1990s,
because he was convinced
that all these young Arab
jihadies would eventually
become terrorists who would
try to undermine his secular
society.
So since he could
not arrest them
without being accused of
peace or humanitarian crimes
against the Iraqi
people, he wanted
to evict them and deport them,
and send them out to-- he
wanted the United
States to arrest them.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And, well, you have to remember
that he was an ally of the US.
>>LINDAUER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So this
has been obscured.
>>LINDAUER: He
was a strong ally.
And he was very anxious to
be a bulwark against Iran.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LINDAUER: And if you
look at Iraq today,
and you look at the alliance
between the Iranians
and the Shiites and
the fall of the Sunnis,
we can see that Saddam
actually had a better plan.
>>LINDAUER: OK, and
let's continue on.
We're only halfway
through the list
of what was on the
table at that time.
They would also have been
given the full exploration
rights to the oil fields there.
>>LINDAUER: Absolutely.
The Iraqis promised the United
States priority contracts
in oil construction,
rebuilding the pipeline.
It's important to understand the
sanctions had degraded Iraq's
oil fields and oil production
facilities very badly.
The pipelines were in
terrible condition.
The pumping stations were
in terrible condition.
They were producing far
below the production capacity
that they were capable of.
And so, the United
States was going
to have huge profits
in rebuilding
all of Iraq's oil
infrastructure.
>>REGINA: So when
people say, oh, we just
went in-- the ones that are
starting to get onto it say,
well, we just went
in there for the oil.
It had nothing to do
with anything else.
The fact was, that was already
being made available to us.
We didn't go in for the oil.
>>LINDAUER: Guaranteed.
>>REGINA: Gauranteed.
>>LINDAUER: And the war and
sanctions have degraded the oil
infrastructure so badly that
now they cannot get the oil
because it's cost prohibitive.
They literally have to-- now the
burden, instead of benefiting
from contracts
from the Iraqis, we
have to pretty much
pay for this ourselves.
Iraq is down for the
count, as it were.
>>REGINA: And in addition,
as just another little bonus
icing on the cake,
the Iraqis offered
to purchase 1
million US-made cars
a year, just to help give a
little back to our economy
after that.
>>LINDAUER: That's right.
1 million American manufactured
automobiles every year
for 10 years.
And also, there was one more
thing that the people who say,
well, we had to do
it for democracy.
No, you didn't.
Saddam Hussein was willing
to step back and retire
to a villa.
He only asked-- he did
not ask for $1 billion.
That was a propaganda ploy that
was put out at the last minute
by the Bush administration.
He only wanted to retire
with a small contingent
of Revolutionary Guard to--
>>REGINA: Basically, to
protect his own life.
>>LINDAUER: To
And he compared it
to President Clinton
receiving Secret
Service protection
after his tenure
in the White House.
And he said, it's very
reasonable and I'll step back
and you can have elections
within 18 months.
The Iraqi exiles were invited
to return home and live
in expanded embassy domiciles
with the embassy security.
They were invited to set
up a campaign headquarters
and have media,
opposition newspapers.
All of this was on the table.
And so you can imagine--
and the thing is,
my cousin was the deputy
was the-- excuse me.
My cousin, Andrew Card,
was the Chief of Staff
to President George Bush, and
this becomes very important
because not only was I reporting
this to my CIA handler,
all of these developments
which were happening
from the end of the Clinton
administration right
through the first two years
of the Bush administration,
all of this was being
reported directly
to my cousin, Chief
of Staff Andrew Card.
The White House
was fully apprised
of every single detail of it.
And that was good
politics because they
needed to know what
Iraq was doing, too.
And the CIA was determined to
take control of the situation
so that as sanctions collapsed,
international loathing
of sanctions was--
because of the genocide,
this was recognized as
a mass murder policy
and the international community
considered it abhorrent.
And so, there was a big
push to throw them out.
If you ever wonder if a single
individual, a small anonymous
individual can
make a difference,
let me just give you an example.
Two German pilots began
to break the blockade.
They were flying humanitarian
missions into Baghdad Airport,
and they refused to
obey the sanctions.
They carried in medicines,
doctors, nurses, transport
for health equipment.
And when the CIA saw
this-- to this day,
I do not know their names,
but when the CIA saw this,
we knew that the
sanctions were over.
It was history.
It was just a matter of time.
And therefore, the
CIA did the thing
that-- whether you
hate the CIA or not,
I realize a lot of
people do, the CIA
jumped in to try to take control
of the situation for the United
States.
And they had to guarantee that
the United States would not
lose power in Iraq
after the sanctions.
And you can hate
the United States,
but that is what the
CIA is supposed to do.
And so therefore, the
CIA began to build
this platform, this
comprehensive framework,
and what was so amazing
was every single thing
that the United States demanded,
Iraq immediately agreed.
And then I'd take it back
to Washington and say, hey,
you wanted this.
You've got it.
What else do you want?
And that's how it went.
That's how it went.
So the reason that
I was arrested
was that when the war
started to go badly,
to tie this back into the bigger
picture of why they attacked
me, the Congress and the White
House, the Bush administration,
were desperate to hide the
real facts of Iraqi prewar
intelligence from the people.
Every word they
told you was a lie.
There was nothing-- I
mean, everything about 9/11
was a lie.
We did know about 9/11.
We'll talk about that later
on, but from the standpoint
of the peace option, we had
sent American soldiers out
to die for nothing,
for no reason at all.
There was no reason to
bankrupt our country,
except that Halliburton
wanted profits.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LINDAUER: But no American
soldier had to die.
No Iraqi citizen had to die.
There was no reason to
have sectarian violence
and a bloodbath.
Every single item that
you could possibly
have desired to
achieve had already
been articulated by the CIA,
we had already addressed it,
and won acceptance
from the Iraqis,
even to the point of having
general elections that
would be monitored
by Jimmy Carter.
And we all know Jimmy Carter
and his tremendous reputation
for guaranteeing the sanctity
of elections worldwide.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: And the
Iraqis said that they'd
be happy to invite
him to come in
as an election monitor
for them as well.
And if there had been
any problems, imagine
we could have, by the time
the war was going badly,
there would have been a whole
new government in Baghdad
through peaceful means.
>>REGINA: So in your
assessment then,
we know it wasn't the oil,
because that was already
made available to them and other
things we've just talked about.
It couldn't possibly
have simply been
about getting some private
contractors in to rake
in hundreds of
billions of dollars.
>>LINDAUER: Oh, yes it was.
>>REGINA: Seriously?
>>LINDAUER: Absolutely.
Absolutely, it was greed.
Halliburton's greed.
Yes, Blackwater's greed.
The defense contractors
made out like bandits.
They are--
>>REGINA: And we
know they're all--
>>LINDAUER: These
are mercenaries.
>>REGINA: --and they're
all in bed with each other.
We know that the Carlyle Group
and the Bush family go back.
I mean, we know this is a very
incestuous affair with politics
of that day probably still.
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
Yes.
Yes, even daddy Bush's
advisers James Baker,
Brent Scowcroft said
don't make this mistake.
This is a huge
catastrophe coming.
But what was really
horrible from my perspective
as the asset was-- and
what was unfair about it,
it was mostly unfair
for the Iraqi people
and it was mostly unfair
for the American soldiers.
I have to tell you
that what I suffered
and what they suffered,
it's light years apart.
The American soldiers
who are now paralyzed,
who have head injuries, who have
served in these tours of duty
in these horrible conditions,
post traumatic stress,
the breakup of their
families, it's--
>>REGINA: The abandonment
by their government.
>>LINDAUER: Abandonment
The betrayal.
I mean you send people--
I am ashamed, particularly
ashamed of Secretary
of State Colin Powell,
former four star general
and former head of the Joint
Chiefs, who lied to America.
He had gone on a
book tour and he
complained that no one at
the CIA, no mid-level people,
ever tried to warn
him that there would
be no weapons of mass
destruction in Iraq
and that the Iraqi exiles
were completely untrustworthy,
that they were total-- that
they were abject liars,
and that their reporting was
just blatant fabrications.
Nobody except me.
>>REGINA: Well, and
that's interesting
because you actually took
a very proactive stance
in doing your job.
First of all, when
you started getting--
and we're going to go into
this in just a sec, what led up
to this, what your background
was, but the fact that you were
screaming from rooftops when
you realized, hold on a minute,
it looks like no one is going
to listen to this stuff.
Why?
You were naive in a way.
You believed.
>>LINDAUER: I believed
in the system.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LINDAUER: I believed
that we were the good guys.
>>REGINA: That's right.
You believed it.
You believed it
with all your heart.
>>LINDAUER: I did.
>>REGINA: You were
a peace activist.
You did everything in
your power to do your part
in trying to bring this
agreement to the table.
And--
>>LINDAUER: And to make
sure that, for example,
in the case of Colin Powell,
Colin Powell lived next door
to my CIA handler,
Dr. Richard Fuisz.
He was his next door neighbor.
So in January of 2003, two
months before the war starts,
I went to Colin Powell twice.
I went to him at the
beginning of January
with the peace framework,
and I assured him
the peace framework
would still be achieved.
And to be perfectly
honest with you,
and this should make everyone
happy about Iran and Syria,
there is never a time when
diplomacy cannot achieve
results.
You always start off with
something very small,
like getting
weapons inspections,
and you expand out
from it very rapidly.
And you find that the first
conversations are the hardest,
and then you find you have a
lot more common ground than you
imagined.
And all of a sudden
you're achieving
wonderful great things.
And if you've got the
courage and vision to do it,
you can always achieve results.
There is no reason
that Chuck-- I'd
like to say in favor of
hope to be soon Secretary
of Defense Chuck Hagel and
the new Secretary of State,
John Kerry, both of these
men have been criticized
in Washington, criticized
for supporting diplomacy
as if diplomacy is a weakness.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LINDAUER: And as if
communication and negotiations
are going to weaken the
United States' position,
and that we will have
to sacrifice our goals.
That is absolutely wrong.
Just as we have just shown
on the Iraqi situation,
you will achieve much more
than you had hoped for,
than you start off hoping for.
>>REGINA: I mean really, that's
your overarching message that
continues to this
day and that you
had to live with in some
very cold and dank times.
That was all there was
to warm your heart,
was that you had
done the right thing
and that this is
the proper path.
And the reality
is, you personally
created an atmosphere of trust
and respect with these people.
That's how you were
able to accelerate
what they were able
to bring to the table.
>>LINDAUER: Yes, absolutely.
And we could have achieved
every goal that we had.
And we can do it
again with Iran.
I'm convinced of it.
>>REGINA: OK, now let's
go back because they're
wondering who is
this woman by now.
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Who is this woman?
How did she end up in a position
to be talking to these people
to begin with?
So if you'll give
us, I mean, you
don't have to do it
in a sound bites.
Give us a background of
your original involvement--
because it was a nine
year process for you
from '93 to '92.
What happened during
that period of time
that put you in that position?
>>LINDAUER: I live
in Washington,
and I, through fate-- fate
has played a role in my life
so many times-- I gave advance
warning about the 1993 World
Trade Center attack.
>>REGINA: And how
did you have that?
>>LINDAUER: There is
some parts of my life
that have to be classified.
I'm very sorry to
do this to you.
I know everybody always
says, well, how did you know?
What matters is that I
did know and I reported it
to the Tunisian Embassy.
I went to the Tunisians because
they represented Yasser Arafat,
and I told the ambassador-- the
diplomat-- the senior diplomat
that I thought that his
embassy would probably
know how to handle terrorism,
and they would probably
know who to tell.
Because I didn't.
I didn't have a clue what to do.
I just knew that somebody had
to do something about this.
And we also know in retrospect
that the FBI had infiltrated
this as well, and that
the FBI had infiltrated
that conspiracy, and they were
feeding it and creating it.
I was ignorant of the
FBI's involvement.
I have to tell you that.
I did not know that part of it.
All I knew was that suddenly I
was aware of this information,
and I had a responsibility
to take action.
So even though I didn't know
everything, I knew enough.
I knew what the
target was, certainly.
And I knew that it involved
Egyptian fundamentalists trying
to overthrow and
assassinate Hosni Mubarak.
And beyond that, I
didn't know what to do.
So I went to Yasser
Arafat's embassy
because I thought they
would know what to do.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>LINDAUER: And so I was very--
>>REGINA: Now you're rising up
in profile a bit after that.
>>LINDAUER: Well, right
after that I became
what they call a
person of interest
in a terrorism
investigation, which
is a very scary situation,
because if you have-- you know,
if you're a person
of interest, you
could go to jail for
the rest of your life
and I was very, very frightened.
But they realized that
I had done my very best
and I had tried to stop the
attack, and that's what you do.
I didn't go to the
normal people because I
didn't know who--
I was 29 years old,
I didn't know who the
right people were, but I
had tried to do
something and that
impressed the CIA and the
Defense Intelligence Agency.
I was assigned a Defense
Intelligence Handler,
who I became what they call a
captured asset at that point.
>>REGINA: What's that mean?
>>LINDAUER: That means
that they had decided
that I needed to be watched
over, that I would not
be wandering around
Washington unaccompanied.
>>REGINA: OK, so you
were a little too
vocal and a little
too passionate.
>>LINDAUER: A little
>>REGINA: Intensely
smart, you're
able to figure things out.
But you could be a loose cannon.
>>LINDAUER: Well, not a
loose cannon, but that I--
the people that I was dealing
with that I needed to have
a conduit in case there
was ever anything that I--
>>REGINA: Yeah, and you weren't
clear on protocols or anything
at this point.
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
I had no idea what
protocols were.
I needed somebody--
obviously, I was
receiving extraordinary
intelligence and somebody
better be there to
grab it from me.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: That's
how to look at it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>LINDAUER: But I was
just very young and naive.
And then I-- and I was naive.
I was introduced to
Dr. Richard Fuisz,
who had been in Lebanon
during the civil war.
And he said that he
had been on the ground
when the Lockerbie bombing,
the bombing of Pan Am 103,
was being planned.
And that, in fact, it involved--
the CIA had infiltrated heroin
trafficking out of the
Bekaa Valley in Lebanon
and that it was the
Islamic jihadists,
now called Hezbollah, were
using heroin trafficking
to pay for their operations.
And it was a big
war against Israel.
It was an ugly civil war.
The Lebanese people's society
was destroying itself.
And they had taken 96
high-profile Western hostages,
including Terry Anderson,
who was the Associated Press
reporter, Jerry Levin, who was
the CNN bureau chief, William
Buckley, who was the CIA
station chief of Beirut,
and like the heads of the
American School in Lebanon.
Very powerful, very
famous Westerners.
Terry Waite, who was
the Anglican emissary,
and these people
were held for years.
Like Terry Anderson was
held for seven years.
So the CIA had a legitimate
goal, to find these people
and rescue them.
The problem was that somebody
on the CIA side had gone rogue,
and they were now profiting
from the heroin trafficking.
And any time the CIA started--
>>REGINA: Like
that's a new story.
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
And any time the team
started to close in
so that they could actually
rescue the hostages,
the rogue CIA agent
was warning Hezbollah,
and then all of a sudden
the hostages would be moved
and they'd have to
start all over again.
And so Richard Fuisz said
that the Defense Intelligence
Agency, Dennis McKee, reported
to Washington that they
had better do an
investigation, they'd
better come out
and clean this up.
Because otherwise,
they were never
going to get the hostages out.
And so the FBI and the CIA sent
a team out from Washington,
they gathered evidence.
They boarded Pan Am
flight 103 to come home.
And lo and behold, they
were blown out of the sky.
And it was because, sure enough,
the rogue CIA agent had warned
Hezbollah that they
were coming back
and they put the
bomb on the plane
so that they could kill
off the intelligence,
you know destroy the
evidence and kill off
the people who'd done
the investigation.
>>REGINA: So how did
Fuisz become involved,
because I remember
reading in your book
in one area you were talking
about the fact he claimed not
only did he know exactly who
was responsible at the Lockerbie
trial, the Lockerbie
trial, getting to that,
he knew all these people's
names, where they lived,
what time they went
to lunch each day.
He knew everything.
>>LINDAUER: The man
who put the bomb
on Pan Am 103 lives
in northern Virginia
about six miles from my house.
He's been protected by the
FBI, the CIA since the 1980s.
The late 1980s, yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
Yeah.
>>LINDAUER: I laugh,
but it's like--
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's not funny.
I mean, it's one of
those things that's
so dark and sick
you laugh at it.
>>LINDAUER: It's so dark
and sick that you laugh,
because it's-- I never really
developed a sense of humor
until I got to prison.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and well,
that's a whole other story
we are going to talk about.
>>LINDAUER: And the tragedy
is these horrible things,
and people sometimes get
very upset when they hear me.
They hear me, they think
I'm being flippant,
but it is my own--
>>REGINA: It's your
survival mechanism, really.
>>LINDAUER: It's my
survival mechanism.
It's a survival mechanism.
>>REGINA: Now, how
did you and Fuisz then
come together
during all of this?
We know he was very
important, and it
appears he was working
very closely with, for?
Who was he to the CIA?
>>LINDAUER: Richard Fuisz
was a long time operative.
He had been outed
by Syria when he
stole the blueprints
for Syria's brand
new telecommunications system.
So he was exposed in
their world and he
had to come back to
Washington, and he could never
go back into the Middle East
because they would kill him.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>LINDAUER: But I
did not out him.
He'd already been outed.
But he needed-- he had--
this was his passion,
it was his gift,
it was his strength
and he needed
somebody who could be
a front for his operations
dealing with these people.
So what he suggested to me,
they knew the CIA had already
vetted me, and I'd been
heavily scrutinized.
I mean, my heavens, during the
investigation of the 1993 World
Trade Center attack, I'd been
put under a magnifying glass.
I could not go
anywhere in my house
and run my fingers
over the furniture.
It was dusted absolutely clean.
My apartment, my house has
never been so clean ever again.
>>REGINA: As when the FBI or CIA
vets you and dusts everything.
>>LINDAUER: They dusted
down for fingerprints
and it was spotless.
>>REGINA: OK, hidden
unintended benefit.
>>LINDAUER: Hidden
But they knew that
I was passionately
opposed to sanctions.
I had been outspoken against
the Iraqi sanctions, which
were destroying health
care, education,
literacy was wiped
out in a generation.
Iraq performed the second
heart transplant in the world,
and now the children were dying.
They had no incubators.
They had no oxygen tanks.
Everything-- there
was a catastrophe.
It was genocide.
>>REGINA: So that's
what fueled you.
You really were compassionate
about the sanctions
and their effect.
>>LINDAUER: That was my
passion, and it was very honest
and they knew this.
And they said to
me, well, here's
an opportunity--
they also knew that I
was very good at anti-terrorism.
I am very, very,
very good at this.
I did one of the very first
investigations of Osama bin
Laden.
By the time my career was
over, I gave advance warning
about the USS Cole
and the 9/11 attack.
I also worked on the Lockerbie
negotiations with Libya,
and ran an operation
that persuaded Qaddafi
to evict all terrorists
from his borders.
So I had a tremendous
track record
by the very end
in anti-terrorism.
I was very, very good at it.
And the reason I could be so
good at it was part of the CIA
is very strategic
and they realized
what I hope the American
people will start to realize.
The Arabs respond best if you
are consistent in your approach
to violence.
I oppose violence
in all directions;
therefore, I'm opposed to anyone
killing Arab children just
like I'm opposed-- and
Palestinian children,
just like I'm opposed
to anyone killing
American children or
American soldiers.
I deeply oppose violence.
And so they respected me.
And the CIA was willing to
take this chance with me.
And they said, why
don't you go to Libya
and make an approach
to these countries
and see if you could
set up a back channel
and start negotiations
for the Lockerbie trial.
And you can tell--
Richard Fuisz said to me,
he said, you can tell them that
I am available as a witness
and I know who did this crime.
And if they will agree
to the Lockerbie trial,
they can call me as a
witness and I will happily
lay out how this whole thing
works and this whole thing
can be cleared up.
And so we started negotiations
for the Lockerbie trial.
And it ended up Libya
absolutely did not
trust the United States at all.
I have to tell you, the first
conversation the diplomat
said to me, oh, thank you CIA.
Thank you so much CIA.
We are so grateful the CIA wants
to help us and our sanctions.
If you know that
we're innocent, why
are you demanding that
we have a trial at all?
Why don't you tell
your families--
why don't you tell the
families of Pan Am 103
that we had nothing
to do with it,
and why don't you
turn your focus
on the people who
really did this?
>>REGINA: And why didn't they?
>>LINDAUER: Because the
families of Pan Am 103 refused
to listen, and this was a very--
>>REGINA: The families?
Well, that would have
had to be an effect
of the media at that point.
>>LINDAUER: The
families attacked,
aggressively attacked
anyone who tried
to say that Libya didn't do it.
>>REGINA: Were the families
given other information
and encouraged to do that?
>>LINDAUER: Yes, they were
given a lot of disinformation.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: They were
also promised money.
And I will tell you that any
time you start promising people
money, and they were paid
$10 million per death.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>LINDAUER: And even when
I visited family members
and said, look, the
Libyans are innocent.
They had nothing
to do with this.
They're like, well, gosh.
Do we have to give
back the money?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: Do we have
to give back the money?
>>LINDAUER: And
it's like they were
willing-- I'm ashamed
of those people,
to be perfectly honest with you.
I don't have very much
respect for those people.
>>REGINA: But maybe
just draw it out for us.
Why would the US want
that kind of outcome?
>>LINDAUER: Well, it was
a very stupid outcome.
What happened was,
originally, the investigation
pointed straight to
Syria and Lebanon.
It pointed right
where it needed to be.
But when George Bush Sr. decided
that he needed Syria's help
with the first Iraqi war--
>>REGINA: I see.
Got it.
>>LINDAUER: And they
needed fly-over rights,
and they needed
Syria to back down.
>>REGINA: So he
couldn't hang this
where it belonged because
he needed their cooperation.
>>LINDAUER: He needed
their cooperation--
>>REGINA: So it was
hung on the Libyans.
>>LINDAUER: -so they
switched it over,
and overnight they
switched it to the Libyans.
And Qaddafi played
his part as a martyr,
because Qaddafi was like,
well, if you want to accuse me
of this crime, I will
gladly bear any--
the martyrdom of Islam says
that they will bear any price,
any suffering that
the West inflicts,
any suffering inflicted by the
infidels adds to your nobility.
So Qaddafi did himself no favors
by standing tall and saying,
we refuse to bend.
We will not help you.
We will not do anything.
He didn't protest the way
that an innocent man would
protest because
he was a jihadist.
He was a jihadist.
But he was not a radical
Islamist jihadist.
He was a Che Guevara jihadist.
And that's very different.
And that's the thing you have to
understand in the current Libya
crisis, is that the radical
Islamists did not like Qaddafi
because he was a socialist.
But Qaddafi always supported
liberation theologies
everywhere in the world, for
all over Latin America, all
over Africa.
He enjoyed being a thorn
in Washington's side.
And it was only when Hosni
Mubarak was under attack
in Egypt-- Egypt and
Libya are right next door
to each other for
those of you who
forget your geography--
that the message came home
that Qaddafi's support for
radical revolutionaries
would cause a threat
to his one and only
friend in the Middle East.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>LINDAUER: And therefore, that
was my operation with Libya
and I was intensely
involved with the Egyptians,
and the troubles that
Hosni Mubarak was facing
with the Muslim
Brotherhood to persuade
these people that
Libya needed to evict
its terrorists from
its own borders
because they might use
Libya as a launching pad
to attack Hosni Mubarak.
And that's how we did it.
That's how we actually
persuaded Libya to act.
>>REGINA: OK.
Thank you for that
wonderful history
lesson that is not
normally shared.
>>LINDAUER: Yes, sorry.
>>REGINA: No, I really
appreciate that because it now
starts setting up
the complexities.
>>LINDAUER: OK, but if
you need to cut that out,
you can cut that out.
>>REGINA: No.
Gosh no.
>>LINDAUER: But
nobody knows that.
>>REGINA: No, they
don't know that.
I mean, I truly appreciate it.
>>LINDAUER: I'm trying to give
you like something nobody has.
>>REGINA: I'm hanging
on every word;
however, I do want to move
forward into your story.
And so, thank you for setting
up the background of what
was going on, how
that was playing out,
why you were where
you were, what
you were doing, who
Dr. Richard Fuisz was.
And now we have
another fellow that
enters the scene, Paul Hoven.
And I want to lay
that foundation first
because this is really
kind of critical to what
happens in a little bit.
>>LINDAUER: Paul Hoven was my
Defense Intelligence handler.
And he actually is the one who
introduced me to Richard Fuisz.
Paul had been responsible for
outing Oliver North an Iran
contra.
He played a major role
with Daniel Sheehan
at the Christic Institute,
providing critical guidance
at exactly the right point
so that Danny Sheehan could
launch his brilliant attack--
>>REGINA: Indeed.
>>LINDAUER: -and fantastic
attack on Oliver North.
And Paul Hoven was part of
something called the Project
for Military Procurement,
which was exposing
fraud in the defense budget.
And that was intelligence coming
from the Pentagon underground,
who complained that weapons
systems were not properly
tested, they were
overcharging the military,
the military was being forced
to buy things they didn't want.
OK, so Paul was a
whistleblower in his own right.
But at the time, we
still saw whistleblowers
as necessary, good, helpful,
protecting democracy.
Whistleblowers were
Nowadays if Paul Hoven
outed Oliver North,
he might get arrested.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LINDAUER: But I was coming
out of that tradition.
And the tradition
that Paul showed me
was that it is patriotic to
defend the United States,
even if you have to
expose unpleasant things.
Sometimes you have to
expose what's unpleasant
so you can safeguard your
country and the values,
and to protect the soldiers.
It's not a malicious thing.
It's not a hurtful thing.
>>REGINA: So now we get down to
a very terrifying day for you.
We get an idea of
what you were up to.
At the very top of
the show, we talked
about what you had already
started hammering out
on behalf of the people
of both countries.
And the FBI shows up at
your door, a bunch of them.
>>LINDAUER: Yeah, well.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>LINDAUER: 30 days before
my arrest on the Patriot Act,
I contacted the offices of
Senator John McCain and Senator
Trent Lott and
requested to testify
on Capitol Hill under
oath about my experiences
as the chief CIA asset covering
Iraq at the United Nations.
>>REGINA: And let's
bring up, there
were 5,000 CIA assets
that were in operation
around the world at that
time, but only three
through the Iraqi Embassy.
And you were one of the three.
All three of you were arrested.
>>LINDAUER: All three of us.
>>REGINA: And we'll talk
about that in a bit.
So there weren't
very many of you
that had access to
this information.
>>LINDAUER: Absolutely.
And I was the most
senior of the lot.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>LINDAUER: The others
were the sons of diplomats
and they had special access,
but they were very young.
They were in their 20s.
And by this time, I'd worked
in anti-terrorism for a decade,
and I was very
proud and I wanted
to testify about my experiences.
And George Bush had just
appointed the Presidential
Commission on Iraqi
Prewar Intelligence,
and I wanted to tell
what really happened.
>>REGINA: So you approached
Lott and McCain's offices.
>>LINDAUER: That was
the appropriate way.
Now, I am a huge supporter
of Bradley Manning,
OK, and WikiLeaks.
I believe in democracy.
I believe in the rights of
the people to know the truth.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>LINDAUER: But
at the same time,
I did not pull a Bradley Manning
and go straight to the media.
I did not know
how at that point.
>>REGINA: You went
through the right channels
that you knew to be the
right channels at that time.
>>LINDAUER: People say why
did you go to Trent Lott?
It was like that was
the way you did it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>LINDAUER: If you wanted
to testify on Capitol Hill,
you went to the people who
controlled the testimony.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: I had
never expected--
I knew that I was going to
make them uncomfortable.
I also expected to
be very professional
in how I handled my situation,
myself in this light.
But I believed the people had a
right to know and I was coming.
Like I said, Oliver
North and I was
from a tradition of the
intelligence community that's
very proud that you
protect America first,
and you're protecting
the society,
you're protecting-- that if you
tell an uncomfortable truth,
sometimes you have to do those
things to protect the greater
good.
>>REGINA: So under that spirit,
you went to these offices
and it was no time flat
after you approached them.
>>LINDAUER: 30 days
later, I woke up
to hear the FBI pounding on my
door with an arrest warrant.
And I thought they
had made a mistake.
I was like, what
are you doing here?
>>REGINA: I know.
In your book, you
were saying, I've only
had a couple
speeding infractions,
minor, I mean, what did I do?
You really didn't know?
>>LINDAUER: I had no
idea, had no idea.
And he said, you're under
arrest on the Patriot Act.
And then I knew whatever
it was, it was very bad.
But even then, even when
he told me Susan Lindauer,
you're under arrest
on the Patriot Act,
I was like what does that mean?
>>REGINA: Yeah,
what does that mean?
>>LINDAUER: What does that mean?
And the problem
is the Patriot Act
is now a protocol for how
to handle national security
cases where you are dealing with
unpleasant intelligence that
will not hurt the people.
I absolutely deny
that anything I
would have told the American
people would have hurt them.
It wouldn't hurt
the politicians who
were trying to
escape responsibility
for what they had done.
Congress was cowardly, and these
are Republicans and Democrats
alike, were ashamed to take
responsibility for the actions.
They did not have the
courage of conviction
to stand by their
decision to send
American soldiers into war.
Colin Powell, whom
I had warned, I
had pleaded with him
that the Iraqi exiles
were totally untrustworthy.
I said it is my professional
assessment as the asset who
has been covering this, Iraq has
been trying to get the weapons
inspectors in for the
past 2 and 1/2 years,
and they have nothing to hide.
They've always said
that this could
start within two to three weeks.
>>REGINA: And we all remember
at his famous press conference,
he lied through his teeth
to the American public.
>>LINDAUER: And lied
to American soldiers.
>>REGINA: And the soldiers.
>>LINDAUER: He should have
been court martialed for it.
>>REGINA: He should have.
>>LINDAUER: Because his
lies, his deception,
harmed American soldiers who
were asked to go fight and die.
>>REGINA: You bet.
>>LINDAUER: And if
you're going to court
martial a military officer
for having an affair,
an adulterous affair,
which is nonsense, garbage.
You're going to force
General Petraeus to resign
from the head of the CIA?
That's a coup.
General Allen has been
asked not to submit his name
to head the NATO forces.
These are illustrious
generals, who
whether you like
the military or not,
they've done-- they're leaders.
They're the best of America
and we're destroying them
over stupid adulterous
claims of adultery.
But then you have Colin Powell,
whose malicious lies result
in the deaths of
American soldiers
and you don't do
anything to him at all.
>>REGINA: Right, so here we go.
Now your journey begins.
They did nothing,
you were arrested.
Now during the arrest, if I
recall correctly in your book,
Paul Hoven had told you
if anything ever goes down
or goes wrong, scream at
the top of your lungs.
Right?
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And you did.
>>LINDAUER: Yes, I did.
When they took me
out in handcuffs,
they took me for the perp walk.
And the FBI opened the door and
there were a few cameras there
and I shouted, I
said, I am innocent.
I am a lifelong peace
activist and everything
I've done-- I've done more on
anti-terrorism than anybody
else, and everything
I have done was always
good for the security
of the United States
and good for the security
of the Middle East.
>>REGINA: To make sure
the cameras got that.
>>LINDAUER: To make sure that
the American people got that.
And what Americans
didn't realize was,
that was actually true.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>LINDAUER: That was not
even an exaggeration.
By that time, I had worked
on every single terrorism
case going back to the '93
World Trade Center attack.
>>REGINA: OK, so
they hauled you off.
>>LINDAUER: Hauled me off
and immediately the Bush
administration-- now realize,
my cousin was the Chief of Staff
to George Bush, and
within hours they
knew they had made a terrible
mistake because I would have
been-- the tragedy
is, and I've got
to make a pitch for
WikiLeaks and Julian
Assange and poor Bradley
Manning right now.
I had been raised as a
child of the black ops,
I was a creature
of the black ops.
I had no capability to deal
with corporate media, CNN.
I needed a Julian
Assange and WikiLeaks.
For those of you who
hate WikiLeaks, just
realize that those of
us who are indoctrinated
in the cult of CIA, it is a
cult of national security,
it is a cult of
paranoia where you're
trained to question whether
the American people are
capable of understanding
what's happening around them.
And it's very insulting
to the American people
to say that we know better
than you and we're going
to make this decision as to
whether you can handle this
or not.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: So we needed--
>>REGINA: Very arrogant.
>>LINDAUER: Very, very
arrogant and stupid.
We are dumbing
down our population
in the name of
national security.
It is vastly superior if
the American people have
a knowledge of the issues and
you can make educated choices.
>>REGINA: They think
that people don't
have any understanding
that is nuanced.
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's going
to be fundamentalist
in nature, the reactions.
They don't give
people any credit
for looking at a complex
array of variables involved
in any of these situations and
a complex array of options,
so they just say,
stamp it stupid, right?
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
Stamp it stupid.
That's the best way-- that's
a very good expression,
stamp it stupid.
That's exactly what happens.
>>REGINA: So now,
it's not convenient
for you to be talking
about this publicly now.
>>LINDAUER: Well, no, no.
I needed a Julian Assange.
Even if you don't
like-- for those of you
in your audience
who don't like him,
I realize he's
very controversial.
You'd be surprised
how many people
are really angry at WikiLeaks
for telling us what we know.
But the facts are
that somebody like me
needs a Julian Assange
to walk us through it.
And Julian Assange and
the WikiLeaks people
have the skills--
>>REGINA: Too bad you
didn't have him in the day.
>>LINDAUER: Oh, if I
had him in the day,
you would have known about
the 9/11 warnings in advance.
You would've-- you,
the people, the public,
the electorate would have
had knowledge to make better
choices in your own
decision making.
You would-- you would have known
about the Iraqi peace option.
You would have had the power
to force the government
to accept it, or to improve it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: If there was
more that you wanted,
you would have been able to
articulate what that was.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: But you would've
had the full knowledge and all
the power that comes
with that knowledge.
Knowledge is power, believe me.
>>REGINA: Instead, we
were kept in the dark.
Now the Bush
administration sees oops,
maybe they shouldn't
have moved in on her.
>>LINDAUER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Right?
And at that point,
they did something
that I consider unforgivable.
I mean, if you bring
charges against somebody,
that individual has
a God given right
to have a trial in any
country of the world.
And a trial is very unpleasant.
It is a very scary thing
to be accused of treason,
and to be accused
of-- but treason,
as Cardinal Richelieu put it,
treason is a matter of dates
as my case proves.
Or in this case,
a matter of hours.
Because they realized that no
sooner had they arrested me,
than they realized that
once my story got out,
the people would
gain-- the trial
would be the best thing
that could happen.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: Because I would
stand there and face everyone,
face the community.
And we would call witnesses,
we'd have subpoena power.
We could run our very own
investigation right live
on Court TV.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: And the American
people would get an eye opener.
They would learn about
the 9/11 warnings.
the peace option.
They would be able to say-- it
wasn't the place I would have
chosen to do it,
but a courtroom is
very effective for addressing
these issues as well.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: And so George Bush
and my own cousin, Andy Card,
decided that they--
within hours,
they decided they would paint
me as a psychiatric case.
And I was-- no sooner did I
get to my bail arraignment
than they made the announcement
that I had threatened suicide,
which was an absolute lie.
Never in my life.
>>REGINA: That's
not your nature.
>>LINDAUER: Not even.
Oh my heavens.
And if anybody ever hears
that I've committed suicide,
let me just tell you
that's such garbage.
If you hear that I'm dead and
they try to pass this off,
just remember I have fought with
my-- I've ripped, I've torn,
I've fought with my
teeth and my fingernails,
and I've cut off a
piece of his ear.
>>REGINA: You have.
You have.
>>LINDAUER: Anyone
who comes after me
is gonna lose a body part.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LINDAUER: It
will never happen.
Even on my worst day,
it would never happen.
>>REGINA: So they accused you.
>>LINDAUER: They
accused me of being
suicidal several weeks
before my arrest.
I laughed.
I roared with laughter in the
courtroom, because I said,
you must have the
wrong Susan Lindauer
because I would never--
never in my lifetime.
I welcome this opportunity.
I'm going to beat the--
>>REGINA: Out of you.
>>LINDAUER: -out of you.
You're going to pay for this.
And I had already realized
several hours after my arrest
that I was now in
control of the situation
and that they were going to have
to-- not that I was in-- no,
I was not in control
of the situation,
but I was going to
be able to give them
a beating very publicly.
>>REGINA: So you thought.
>>LINDAUER: So I thought.
And they had realized
it too, so they demanded
that my bail would require
a psych evaluation.
And they made up a story
that I was suicidal,
and I said that's garbage.
I went in and I told
the psychiatrist
that I was absolutely
not suicidal
and that it was
a political case.
The psychiatrist recommended
that I have six to eight weeks
of counseling, just to see how
I handled my indictment in case
it upset me.
I had never been under
arrest before in my life.
>>REGINA: It would be upsetting.
>>LINDAUER: And I had no
idea how I would respond.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: But I said this
is just ridiculous garbage.
And they said, so they--
but by the time they
got me in front
of Judge Mukasey,
they decided that I would have
to have psychology counseling
right up until the trial.
And so they had done their best
to slam, defame my reputation.
But the more they
looked at the evidence,
they found that they
had no evidence.
They could now-- I
was like unbending.
I was like unyielding.
I told them I would
never give them
a guilty plea under
any circumstances
and that I was happy to fight
every single charge against me
in court, and they could drop
the charges or go to trial.
And then they had a problem.
Congress, the war in Iraq was
going very, very, very, very
badly, and Congress decided that
they were going to blame me.
>>REGINA: As an
asset, that was part
of the report on the poor
intelligence on the ground.
>>LINDAUER: Poor
intelligence on the ground
was responsible for the
mistakes on Capitol Hill.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: Jane Harman,
who was a Democrat, who
chaired the House Intelligence
Committee as a Democrat,
declared that if assets had
only spoken up and corrected
mistakes in the intelligence,
the Congress would never
have rushed into
this terrible war.
And that if our intelligence
was being wrongly misreported,
that we had failed.
And what you again didn't
know was that I had written,
as an anti-war activist, I
had written dozens of papers
and distributed
them throughout--
I started something
called the Citizens
for Public Integrity I
was so offended about 9/11
and the lies.
I called it Citizens
for Public Integrity,
and I had blasted Congress
with anti-war papers explaining
all the problems and mistakes
that would come from this war.
And so again, you
had the Congress--
>>REGINA: They knew.
>>LINDAUER: They knew.
>>REGINA: The CIA knew, the
Justice Department knew,
the Office of
Counter-terrorism knew.
Everybody knew.
They all had
advantage of knowledge
of the intelligence
you had gathered.
>>LINDAUER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So this is all a lie.
>>LINDAUER: And they knew
about the 9/11 warnings.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: And I was ready to
talk about the 9/11 warnings
as well.
And so you have all
of these things,
and so-- but Congress
was determined
to blame the assets
for bad intelligence.
>>REGINA: So now
they have a problem.
Just as--
>>LINDAUER: An absolute lie.
>>REGINA: -this
comes up, now they
have to somehow
impugn your character.
And so we have a
complex situation.
If you testify, meaning
if there's a trial,
you're going to
blow the whistle.
You're going to say hello,
you guys already know this
and you're going to tell what--
>>LINDAUER: And
I'm going to prove.
>>REGINA: You're
going to prove it,
and you had a lot of witnesses.
>>LINDAUER: -the accusations.
Well, the accusations
themselves that I was a quote,
Iraqi agent, accused me of
telling Congress and Colin
Powell and Andy Card that
the war would be catastrophic
and there'd be no weapons
of mass destruction.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
You called exactly what
the ramifications would be.
And I saw that document.
So you have people ready to
corroborate your story, people
who are highly credible
and at high levels.
Plus, you had your
handlers, your CIA handlers.
So they couldn't
let you go to trial.
>>LINDAUER: There's
even a letter
that I gave to Colin Powell.
All of this would have
been released at trial,
and it would have been
shown to the media
and it would've been a very
lively jury deliberations.
>>REGINA: OK, and this was not
going to be allowed to happen.
You were not going to
have your say in court.
This story gets really complex
and it gets really ugly.
This isn't the ugly--
this is not the ugly part,
we're just talking about
the run up to what happened.
They come in-- we only have
about five minutes left,
and we're going to have
a second conversation
about your experience
after this.
So you're arrested, you
go to your arraignment
and so forth, and
then what happens?
>>LINDAUER: And
then they declared
that I required a
psychiatric evaluation.
And they tell the
media, oh, she's
just this little
peace activist who
is a little manic depressive,
she's a little goofy.
Some people have looked
at the TV series Homeland.
>>REGINA: You know,
when I watched it,
because I read your book
a year and a half ago, I
was thinking about this
and I thought, oh my god.
This is so similar.
>>LINDAUER: A number
of people have
suggested that the character
played by Claire Danes
might be based on the
perception of what I was.
>>REGINA: Not the details or
reality, but a perception.
>>LINDAUER: Not the reality.
Not the reality,
but the story that
was created about me, that
I was some manic depressive,
insane lunatic.
How did she get into the CIA?
How does somebody
who's this unstable.
>>REGINA: Yet,
nonetheless brilliant
and you were calling it right.
>>LINDAUER: And I
was calling it right.
>>REGINA: Fairness
to the series,
they do give her that,
that crazy woman.
>>LINDAUER: Yes,
Yeah.
>>REGINA: So we have
about three minutes
left, let's talk
about how you ended up
at Carswell, because in
our next conversation
we're going to talk about the
incredible criminal behavior
of the psychiatric
industry, the humiliation.
What you went through
really had me in tears.
>>LINDAUER: This is
a very scary story.
After my arrest, I was
free on $500,000 bail
and I was required to attend--
>>REGINA: Funny for a
little peace activist.
>>LINDAUER: Yeah.
Goofy.
>>REGINA: Delusional.
>>LINDAUER: Yeah.
And it was just-- I
was required to attend
these stupid
psychology meetings,
and every single month,
my psychologist person
or psychiatrist person
would prepare reports,
Susan Lindauer is stable.
No symptoms of psychosis,
no symptoms of mania,
no symptoms of depression.
She's perfectly fine.
And he documented
this for a year.
However, at the
same time that he
was documenting that there
was absolutely nothing
wrong with me--
>>REGINA: Who was this?
>>LINDAUER: This was a man
by the name of Dr. Bruke
Tedesse from Family Health
Services in Maryland,
a local guy who
was not political.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>LINDAUER: OK, at the same
time that he was doing that,
I was summoned to appear for
a major psychiatric evaluation
in New York.
And I had a very
famous psychiatrist who
had been the director
of admissions
at Bellevue Hospital, who
interviewed me for two hours
only, and he gave me a
Rorschach Inkblot Test, which
I proclaimed to be the stupidest
thing I'd ever seen and I said,
it looks like inkblots to me.
I'm not impressed by you at all.
I do not want to use a
psychiatric evaluation.
I have no intention
of allowing my case
to be distracted by
stupid psychiatry.
I have zero tolerance
for this stuff.
As far--
>>REGINA: And what
was his name again?
>>LINDAUER: Dr.
Sanford Drob, who
later went to work
in Santa Barbara
at Fielding Graduate
University teaching
how to perform
psychiatric evaluations.
>>REGINA: So he gave
you your inkblot test.
>>LINDAUER: He did.
And he wrote in
the court something
that horrifies me to this day.
He said that the desire to
disapprove the allegations
against me and to prove that
I had been an asset working
under the supervision of
Dr. Richard Fuisz, that
in itself qualified
as a mental defect.
Because I was 95%
convinced of my innocence,
I could not
appreciate the gravity
of the charges against me.
So long as I continued
to demand a trial,
that the act of
demanding the right
to challenge the
allegations and to disprove
the evidence-- in other
words, I wanted to face them,
he said that in itself qualifies
as a mental defect that
renders Ms. Lindauer
incapable of standing trial.
>>REGINA: OK, by
now, most people
should be tearing their hair
out, screaming, laughing,
or crying.
>>LINDAUER: Well, it's Kafka.
>>REGINA: It's right out
of like Cold War era.
>>LINDAUER: The only
thing that would
make me competent
to stand trial would
be if I agreed to
take a guilty plea.
>>REGINA: Not an option.
We can see that in your
eyes, that wasn't an option.
>>LINDAUER: Never.
>>REGINA: And so now--
>>REGINA: -they say delusions
of grandeur, making all this up,
thinks she was a CIA asset and--
>>LINDAUER: And I said I
was willing to prove it
because the Justice
Department had documents.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LINDAUER: The
Justice Department.
>>REGINA: You could prove it.
You had everything.
I mean, just look at the book.
You can see the proof was there.
Now, to be continued.
As unfair as all of this
sounds, up to this point,
nothing topped what happened
in Carswell Federal Prison
at the hands of a psychiatrist.
This warrants a
second conversation,
which we will be having, so keep
an eye out for that interview
in the near future.
Meanwhile, to familiarize
yourself with Susan's case,
you can find her book
Extreme Prejudice
on Amazon and other booksellers.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]